.\" Copyright (C) 2017 Kevin Boone 
.\" Permission is granted to any individual or institution to use, copy, or
.\" redistribute this software so long as all of the original files are
.\" included, that it is not sold for profit, and that this copyright notice
.\" is retained.
.\"
.TH ebookinfo 1 "March 2017"
.SH NAME
ebookinfo \- a command-line utility to display metadata from e-book files 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ebookinfo
.RB [options]
.B {files...}
.PP

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIepubinfo\fR is simple Linux command-line utility for 
displaying basic meta-data -- author, title, etc -- from various
e-book files. At present, it supports EPUB, MOBI, and RTF.
It includes a library that can be used by other applications for
extracting e-book meta-data; the 
\fIepubinfo\fR utility is essentially a demonstration of the
usage of the library. 


.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.BI -c,\-\-comment
Display a document comment or description, if there is one. This display
is not enabled by default because, if this item is present, it tends
to be lengthy
.LP

.TP
.BI -h,\-\-html2text
Pass the output through html2text. Some e-book authors provide meta-data
in HTML or XHTML; even when they do not, this option sometimes improves
the readability of plain text
.LP

.TP
.BI -v,\-\-version
Display version and copyright infomation
.LP

.SH NOTES

.SS Meta-data differences

There is no standard for the kind of meta-data that different document
formats support. This utility displays the five basic entries that 
most formats handle -- author, title, year, genre/subject, comment.
EPUB and MOBI formats allow multiple genre/subject tags, these are
displayed as a comma-separated list. The 'year' attribute is the
year of the last document revision, in formats that distinguish different
dates. 


.SH AUTHOR AND LEGAL
\fIepubinfo\fR
is maintained by Kevin Boone, and is open source under the
terms of the GNU Public Licence, version 3.0. It contains contributions
from a number of other authors, whose details may be found in 
the source code.
There is no warranty
of any kind.


.SH FURTHER INFORMATION 
For more details, see 
http://kevinboone.net/README_ebookinfo.html.


.\" end of file
